= ruby-mirror

This library tries to provide an open source interface to the rfid reader {mir:ror by violet}[http://www.violet.net/_mirror-give-powers-to-your-objects.html]. This is only tested on linux. Maybe it works on other Unixes (FreeBSD, OSX, etc.) too.

== Protocol

Sample input:
  
  Mifare-type rfid (used in some cafeteria / library cards)
  02 01 00 00 04 72 9c 0b 90

  nano:ztag
  02 02 00 00 08 d0 02 1a 03 52 d0 2a af

Protocol:

                 ------- payload ------
                 |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

              -- payload size
              |
  02 02 00 00 08 d0 02 1a 03 52 d0 2a af
  ^
  -- opening flag

     ^
     -- direction (01 for arriving at the reader / 02 for leaving the reader)

        ^  ^
        ------ padding or additional payload size information

== Using the library

This is rather a rough scretch than a working interface.

To use this, you have to

=== Access to the device 

In order to be able to detect and access the mir:ror ruby-mirror needs
read access to all /dev/hidraw devices:

  $ sudo chmod o+r /dev/hidraw*

You'll have to repeat this each time you plug in a hid device. 

=== Run the sample

  $ ruby bin/ruby_mirror.rb examples/bunny.mir

  oneiros' green bunny is in the house.
  oneiros' green bunny has left the building.
  hey d0021a053b4d20c3 stranger, never seen you before

== Misc

Mir:ror ID

  $ sudo lsusb -d 1da8:1301 -v

  Bus 001 Device 010: ID 1da8:1301  
  Device Descriptor:
    bLength                18
    bDescriptorType         1
    bcdUSB               1.10
    bDeviceClass            0 (Defined at Interface level)
    bDeviceSubClass         0 
    bDeviceProtocol         0 
    bMaxPacketSize0        64
    idVendor           0x1da8 
    idProduct          0x1301 
    bcdDevice            1.00
    iManufacturer           4 Violet
    iProduct               18 Mirror
    iSerial                32 4310FFFF <----
    bNumConfigurations      1

which corresponds to the violets mir:ror id FFFF0134

== Help

If you can provide code or information regarding the mir:ror or the ztamps please contact me.

== License

See COPYING for legal information. It's an MIT license, which lets you do anything you want with this.


